Great let's talk a little bit about redux.
And if you've done some reading about redux now you'll learn that it is a centralized place to manage
our state.
It's a state container.
So what do we mean by state here.
This could refer to a list of to do's or some information about a user.
Whenever you think about applications that you got on the front end there's going to be information
that changes pretty constantly and having one centralized place to manage that is really useful when
you have lots of different files and so on.
So what I want you to do is completely ignore the talk of react and redux or angular and redux which
is going to focus on vanilla redux.
In fact broodiness then this entire video in the chrome dev tools.
So what I'm going to do is go grab a redux script so I'll just type in redux CDN and let's go take a
look at this one right here and we're just going to grab the first script for redux and copy that and
I'm going to head over and just make a simple file called index that actually M-L and open that up and
sublime.
Make sure you do the right thing.
And inside of here I'm just going to start with some boiler plate.
Little bit of each DML.
And all I want is a script tag with a source attribute of the script right here.
Amazing.
So I'll just press tab and see that we're not to worry about any HDMI out.
We're just going to open this up in the browser and if we done this correctly we should be able to go
to the chrome dev tools and type in capital R redux.
And this is it.
This is all we're going to start with.
So let's take a look at what redux gives us blind middleware bind action creators combined reducers
compose and create store.
What we're really just going to focus on right now is this idea of creating a store.
The store is going to be the centralized place where our state lives.
We don't really know what our state is going to consist of right now but think of your state as just
any data in your application that's going to be changing you're coming from react.
So you may have heard the idea of state with react.
This is similar.
But the idea with redux state is a little bit less for your user interface and more for just the data
that's going to be shared in different parts of your application.
Remember having one centralized place to manage all of the state is going to make it much easier.
The hard part about redux is really just wrapping your brain around what the library is.
How does it all work and then it gets even harder when you connect it with react.
So what I really once again want to stress here is just focusing on the redux library and seeing how
data flows throughout a redux application.
So all we're starting with once again vanilla redux and that's it the function that I want to spend
some time looking at is create store.
We said that a store is going to be the place where our state is contained.
And once we make the store we'll be able to actually see data flow throughout our application.
Don't worry about compose combined reducers by an actual creators applied middleware.
Talking about any of that stuff for now you're actually going to see that redux is probably about five
to seven or so functions that you use the least amount of functions you're ever going to spend the most
possible time learning.
So that's the tricky part.
So let's take a look at how Creed's store works.
I think a variable called store and all assignment to redux does create store.
And what we're going to see right off the bat is expected the reducer to be a function well.
No moving parts here a producer is a function that is passed to create store.
What does that mean.
The reducer is a specific function that tells our centralized store which is our state container or
place where Steve lives.
It essentially tells the store what the street looks like and how to make changes to the state.
So if you make a store without a reducer we're going to get an error.
Once again the ideal with the reducer is it's always a function.
Don't worry too much about parameters that this function accepts or anything the reducer is simply a
function that is going to manage what our state looks like and how changes to our State happen.
So what we're going to do right now is start with something very simple.
We're going to make a function and we'll call this root producer and inside of here we're going to pass
in two parameters.
You might not know what these parameters refer to and that's OK.
But this first one is going to be steep.
And the second one is going to be action state and action are going to be values that we'll see in a
little bit.
But remember that when we make a store in redox we said the store is our centralized place for our state.
Well we probably have to figure out what our state is going to be and depending on your application
your seat is going to be different.
All I'm going to do right now is start with something very simple.
I'm going to make a variable called initial state and initial state is going to be an object and it's
going to contain some value with a count and we'll start that off at zero.
So this is what our state looks like.
Nothing too fancy right here it's just a simple object inside of our route reducer.
We are going to specify what the default state should look like and what we could do here is something
like if steede is undefined.
Well then maybe we can set our state to be the initial state but instead of worrying about all that
logic we can use them nice.
Yes 2015 right here and we'll say that our default state is going to be initial state and all we're
going to do inside of here is just return state.
Don't worry too much about action.
That's really all that our producer does.
So what have we done.
We meet an object called initial state which has a key account and a value of zero.
We then meet a function called Ruut reducer which accepts some kind of state and some parameter called
Action.
Don't worry about that too much yet.
We'll see that in a bit more detail as we see how data flows throughout an application.
But remember again when you make a store with redux the store is going to be the place where we make
changes to our state when we make that store we have to pass in a function and the function that we
pass to create store is called a reducer.
You can have multiple reducers and that's OK right now we're just going to start with what.
So I'm going to go back to the store and I'm going to call create store of a passing route reducer this
time.
Now I'm not getting any errors.
But what is the store that I'm looking at.
Well let's see if we look at store.
We get a couple of other methods right here.
There's a method called dispatch.
There's a method called Get state.
And then those replace reducer and subscribe.
We're really just going to focus on dispatch and get the right now.
So one more time.
What do we do.
Created a store.
The store is going to be the place where our state lives.
We cannot make a store without a producer.
Our producer is a function that determines what our city looks like and how we change the state.
So if you remember how our route reducer works our route reduce or just accepted some kind of initial
state.
What was the initial state just an object with a key account and a value of zero.
In this case we're going to build a very simple counter.
But in your application your state may be whatever data is going to live in your application.
We'll see what action is once again in a second.
If we take a look at our store there exists a method called gets the I'm going to run this and we can
see that we get back our initial state on your store.
You always have the ability to get what the state looks like.
Currently the way that you make changes to your state is by using this dispatch function right here.
So let's invoke the dispatch function and we'll see of actions must be plain objects.
Use custom middleware for async actions.
This is where the redux gets really tricky.
If you're wondering what's happening and there's so many things that are moving around that's really
how redux works you want to try to take it piece by piece.
So let's go back one more time and just set a very high level talk about what we're doing here.
The idea with redux is that we have one centralized place where our state looks what is our state to
use in an application information about a user progress that a user is making throughout an application
pieces of data that are going to change depending on interactions in the application and having one
centralized place to manage that is really nice especially if you have multiple javascript files or
lots of Riak components.
It's really nice to have one centralized place where you can always see what the state looks like what
changes to the state look like.
It really makes your life much easier despite the fact that the learning curve is very steep.
So the way to make this centralized state container is to create a store the way that we create a store
by using redux that create store.
We saw that by just loading the redux script that gives us this global redux variable create store accepts
one parameter which is a function that function has a special name which is called a reducer and he
reducer is a function that determines what our state looks like and how we change the state.
Remember right now we haven't changed our state at all.
We have just made some initial state.
So if we go back a little bit we can see that we mean a variable called initial state.
This could be an object this could be an array this could be whatever you'd like but we're just going
to stick with an object.
Keep it simple and we need a function called a root reducer.
This usually refers to the one reducer that bundles up other ones.
But right now we don't have that.
So we're going to stick with one simple function and it accepts some kind of state which we're not going
to worry about invoking right now.
We're just going to set that state to be initial state.
If you don't pass in anything we're then going to just return the state.
That's all we're doing here.
We said that in the producer we can talk about changing the state but we're not worried about that right
now.
So let's go back to where we were and we had the store variable and we saw one method on the store called
gets the.
And this just gets whatever the state is at that time.
Right now that's our initial state because there haven't been any changes.
We also saw that to make a change to our state.
We have to dispatch something.
What is that something we have to dispatch what's called an action.
And you may be remembering Hey action.
I think I've seen that before.
Well action was that second parameter right here.
An action is an object.
That's really it an action is an object when you dispatch an action.
You have to send to the dispatch function some kind of special object.
Well what is that special object have that special object always has a key and that key has to be called
type.
So what's really nice about redoes even is when you try to do something wrong it really gives you a
good error message.
Actions may not have an undefined type property.
Have you misspelt constant.
Well I haven't really missed all that constant here but I didn't pass in a key of type.
I'm going to pass in a key of type and I'll set this to be.
Hello.
And all I get back is this object with a type of Hello.
Did I make any changes to my state.
How do we C-store dockets.
Now everything kind of looks the same but I dispatched in action.
So what is the purpose of this action.
Well the way that we make changes to our state is by dispatching an action and when we dispatch an action
we go back to our producer.
So let's go take a look at all of these put together and let's get some debuggers to see how data flows
in our application.
I'm going to refresh the page and we're going to do this line by line.
So we are going to make a function called Root reducer and before we do that let's would make a variable
called initials D and initials D.
Once again is going to be an object that contains a key of count and a value of zero.
Remember the first parameter to a root reducer is going to be whatever the state is in the event that
we don't pass in anything here.
We'll set it to be initials D.
We'll see in a little bit why we want to do this.
We're then going to pass in some kind of action.
And what I'm going to do inside of here is just throw a debugger keyword and then we're going to return
this.
So you might be wondering well when does this reduce or actually get triggered.
Well let's go see.
So you might be wondering when does this reduce or actually get triggered.
Well let's see.
I'll make a variable called store and I will set that to be redux.
That creates a member capital redux comes in from that script that we loaded We're going to pass in
the root reducer.
And the second that I make this store we go right to our producer.
What's interesting here is that the first time that you make a store redux actually dispatches an action
you can see that that action rate here is a special object.
Remember every action has to be an object with a key of type and the type right here is this at redux
in it.
This is done internally by redux to see what our initial state is.
So the reason why we set this default parameter right here is because the first time that we make our
store the reducer is run and an initial state is created.
If we didn't have this default parameter we just be returning whatever state was which in our case wasn't
really anything we didn't pass in any specific state.
So it's important that the very first time that the reducer is run which happens when the store is created
that we return some default state.
So let's go back to our council and let's go see what's going on here and we get back.
And that's that's totally fine.
So if we look right now this is our reducer and this right here was our store and we saw that when we
made the store it went straight to the reducer right away to figure out what the state was and what's
nice about that is we can call store Dagget state and right away we know exactly what our state is at
that time.
If you remember the way to make changes to the state is to dispatch an action.
How do we dispatch an action who can dispatch an action the store.
So the store is going to dispatch an action.
If you remember one action was well let's see if it yells at us actions have to be plain objects.
OK let's try to just pass in a plain object.
Well they got to be a little bit more than that.
Actions have to have a defined type property.
We always have to pass in a type that was passed in a type of increment and you might be wondering why
I'm doing this in all caps.
You'll see that very commonly done.
So don't be too alarmed by that.
I'm going to dispatch an action of increment.
And what do you think's going to happen.
We'll remember that when I dispatch an action we go back to the reducer.
So I'm going to run this and we're going to go right back to the reducer.
But notice here that we didn't pass in any state the way that redox works is that it will take whatever
that state is at the time and let us know.
But what's nice here is we actually did pass in an action that action had a type of increment.
So why don't we try to make a change to that's the what we're going to do here.
Back and our producer you simply say if action that type is increment Well then let's go and take that
state and the county property and incremented by one and then we'll just return the state otherwise
just return whatever state is.
So all we're doing is just adding one to state no problem.
Let's go try this again.
We'll put a debugger right here to make sure that we actually increment correctly.
Once again we'll go create the store because we have to do this again.
I'm pressing.
I've been down to get to my last commands and I'm going to dispatch in action.
But remember what key does my action has to have first off remember actions have to be objects.
In this case you're going to learn a little bit later that there is middleware.
Other tools for asynchronous actions but right now just say actions have to be objects right now.
So our action has to have a key of what Remember that he was type and this case I want the tape to be
increment that way I can add one to the count and get back my seat.
So let's try this right now.
I'm going to pass in increment.
I'm going to run this and we're going to get to this debugger and then I'm going to return the state.
Well let's go see what our state looks like.
Remember we can do that by store that gets state and we can see right here that the count is 1.
Now you may be looking at this and saying oh that's great no problem.
But we've done something that's not great right here.
You're going to see some errors when you're reducers are not pure functions.
So if you see what I did right now actually directly mutated the state and things might be working a
little bit.
If I dispatch another action and I go take a look at my city.
It's going up like I expected to.
But this isn't going to work in all scenarios.
You always want to make sure that your reducers are pure functions.
See an example of this a little bit later.
So what I'm going to do is instead of directly mutating my state I'm going to make a copy of that state
and go to refactor my producer to be a pure function.
So we're going to go back and how do we do that.
Well we can make some kind of new object.
We can make a copy of that initial state so we could say let our new state be a copy.
We can do that with objects that assign or spread operator.
But we're going to do is simply make a copy of that object right here with our state and then we can
return our new state over here.
Otherwise we'll just return whatever the state is.
Once again let's go create the store let's go dispatch an action of increment.
Remember we always need a type.
We're going to add increment here and we'll see what happens.
Remember always can you store that gets.
It looks like it's going up by 1.
Looks like it's going up by two.
Looks like it's going up by three.
But what's the difference here than what we had before.
Well we didn't mutate the state.
We made a copy of our stake in order for redux to work.
You always always have to use pure functions.
This is important when composing different functions together or reverting back to a previous state.
If your producers are pure functions redox gives you the ability to time travel and that sounds really
cool but in theory it's just the idea of going and seeing what your previous state looked like.
But if you keep overriding your state and your writing impure functions with side effects you're not
going to be able to do that.
So always make sure that you're making copies of your state and not directly mutating your state.
You will get errors that are really hard to debug if you're reducers are not pure functions.
So we've made an action of increment.
Let's go try to Decora and let's see what that looks like.
Well we're going to go back to our producer and inside of our producer we can add another condition.
You can say if action that type is Decker and well then let's go do exactly what we did here except
we're going to subtract from the count.
Remember here this is the default condition here.
We just return the state.
This happens the very first time that we make that store.
So the very first thing that redux dispatches is an object or an action with a key of type and the value
of at redux slash.
And this right here is simply what redux uses to figure out what our initial state is and that's what
we pass right here.
That's our default state in the future.
Once that default state is created it's just going to give us whatever the state is at that time.
And then we can dispatch an action.
So here's what our new REDUCE-IT is going to look like.
Once again we're going make that store and we will go dispatch an action member actions always have
to be objects right now.
They always have to have a key of type when to an increment and when we do this we expect to see our
state have a count of one.
Let's go dispatch increment again and increment again and increment again one more time.
We expect it to have accounted for.
How about this new one document and document and decrement.
What do we see right now we're back to what so the way that this works is you have some kind of data
that you work with.
This could be like a list of to use or maybe it's a user and maybe you added to do or remove it to do
or update it to do.
Or maybe you update a user or remove a user the way you make that work is by dispatching actions.
So the way the data flows in this redux application is first we create a store but before we create
a store we need to create a producer with some initial state because remember when we create the store
the reducer is run and our initial state is defined.
What we then do is whenever we want to see our state we run a store that gets the
and whenever we want to make a change to our state we dispatch an action.
Remember actions are objects and actions must have a key of type.
If they don't get in there now we saw that actions are just very very simple objects.
But sometimes you don't always want to pass in that entire object.
So we can write functions that return objects.
We're going to talk about this idea of writing a function that returns an object to be more particular.
We're going to write a function that returns an action.
What's an action.
It's an object with a key of type.
So here are just some notes you can take a look at what we're going to do is we're going to make a function
called increment and increment is very simple.
It's going to return an object and inside of this object we're going to have a type of increment and
that's it.
Interesting.
So there are two ways that I can dispatch an action right now to store that dispatch.
Let's just take a quick look at what our state is so we see all restarting store that dispatch here
I can pass in the entire object with the type of increment.
What else can I use.
Well I can use my increment function when I dispatch that function.
It's going to return an object.
So I'm dispatching the result of this function which is an object.
I'd take a look at my state.
I'm now up to two.
This right here is simply a function that returns an action we call those action creators because there
are functions that return actions.
Let's go take a quick break and we'll talk about a little bit more complex of a redux example.
In the next video.